Voice:
Come, Nerevar. Friend or traitor, come. Come and look upon the Heart, and Akulakhan. And bring Wraithguard... I have need of it.
Come to the Heart Chamber. I wait for you there, where we last met, countless ages ago.
Come to me, through fire and war. I welcome you.
Welcome, Moon-and-Star. I have prepared a place for you.
Come. Bring Wraithguard to the Heart Chamber. Together let us free the cursed false gods.
Welcome, Nerevar. Together we shall speak for the Law and the Land, and shall drive the mongrel dogs of the Empire from Morrowind.
Is this how you honor the Sixth House, and the tribe unmourned? Come to me openly, and not by stealth.
Dagoth Ur welcomes you, Nerevar, my old friend. But to this place where destiny is made. Why have you come unprepared?
Welcome, Moon-and-Star, to this place where destiny is made.

Greetings:
If you have not yet gotten all three tools of Kagrenac:
Strange. This outcome I did not foresee. That you would come unprepared.
Until I see you better prepared, we have nothing to discuss.
If you do have the three tools (Wraithguard, Keening, and Sunder):
It began here. It will end here. Have you any parting words? Or would you prefer to skip the speeches, and get to our business? You are the challenger here, after all. So to you goes the courtesy of the first blow.
Have you something more to say?
come unprepared:
If you have not yet gotten all three tools of Kagrenac: 
This is the place of destiny. And destiny may only be shaped by the holder of Kagrenac's Tools. I do not know what you think to accomplish. But raise your hand against me, and I shall destroy you.
If you do have the three tools: 
I am glad that this time you did not come unprepared.

My first question is: Are you really Nerevar reborn?
By the grace of gods and fate, I am Nerevar reborn.
That is bitter. The gods and fates are cruel. I served you faithfully once, Lord Nerevar, and you repaid me with death. I hope this time it will be you who pays for your faithlessness.
I'm a loyal servant of the Emperor.
Then I salute you for your faithful service to your lord. And I curse you and your Emperors as my enemies, for your stealing and spoiling Morrowind and degrading the Dunmer race. Your death and humiliation will give me special pleasure.
I am a self-willed hero, and I make my own fate.
You are bold. I honor your independence. You are one to teach the gods their limits. I hope the bards will praise the glory of your death in song.
I know no more than you do.
What a world.... Perhaps we shall never know. But as I have sympathy for you, and the melancholy fate of all mortals, I shall weep for your death.
My second question is: if you win, what do you plan to do with the power from the Heart? Will you make yourself a god, and establish a thearchy? Or will you complete Akulakhan, and dispute control of Tamriel with the Septims? Or will you share the Heart with your followers, as I have, and breed a new race of divine immortals?
I know no more than you do.
You will follow the model of the Tribunal? That is a dull and unenterprising ambition. See what the Tribunal have done. They've sacrificed the honor and dignity of the Dunmer race, and handed over our ancient land to the mongrel dogs of the Empire. You may mean well, but you lack vision. You are not worthy of the Heart.
Complete Akulakhan.
A noble ambition. And anyone who should make war upon the Septims should be my friend. A pity we cannot trust one another as allies.
Share the Heart.
You have a noble spirit. I share the power I have from the Heart to help free mortals from their ancient fears of the gods. Who knows what we might be capable of once we no longer fear death? Your goal is worthy, and I honor you for it.
I have my own, secret plan for the Heart.
Well. Perhaps there may be surprises in store for me yet. Or perhaps you obscure your plans on principle. Or perhaps you are an instinctive bluffer. No matter.
My final question is: If I had offered to let you join me, would you have surrendered Wraithguard, Sunder, and Keening to me to seal your oath?
No, I would never join you.
Thank you for the forthright response. And now, if you have any questions, ask them. Otherwise, you are the challenger. I await your first blow.
No, I would never surrender the tools.
An interesting response. You might have been willing to join me, but never to surrender the tools. Very interesting. I'm glad I didn't try to bargain with you. And now, if you have any questions, ask them. Otherwise, you are the challenger. I await your first blow.
Yes, perhaps, with the right guarantees.
Since it hardly matters, let me assure you... there are no guarantees that would help you once I had my hands on those tools. Pity I didn't try to bargain with you. It might have made things so much easier. But now we'll never know. Pity. But now, if you have any questions, ask them. Otherwise, you are the challenger. I await your first blow.
Yes, if I had a cunning plan.
Yes, of course. I doubt that any cunning plan would have been of much use once I had the tools in hand. But now we'll never know. Pity. But now, if you have any questions, ask them. Otherwise, you are the challenger. I await your first blow.
What is your plan for the Heart?
I will continue to draw divine power from the Heart and distribute it to my kin and followers. I will continue to broadcast divine power upon the blight winds, so that it will touch each soul in Vvardenfell, and then more broadly, across the waters to the rest of Morrowind and Tamriel. In time, every mortal in Tamriel shall feel the liberating contact with the divine.
What is your plan for the Sixth House?
The Sixth House will serve as the elite cadre of our movement. As cultists evolve through various stages of enlightenment, they will become, as suits their abilities, either holy warriors or priests. Their duty is to prepare themselves for service; their joy and liberation is to enter even-more-deeply into the profound enlightenment of the divine dreamworld.
What is your plan for the Dunmer?
I will free the Dunmer from the Imperial yoke, and cast down the false gods of the Temple. I will lead them out of their ancient superstitions, and gift them with intimate knowledge of the divine. Then, perhaps, when Morrowind is once again restored to its ancient glories, it will be time to consider whether the Dunmer should cultivate ambitions of empire.
How do you justify your crimes?
If, by my crimes, you mean the inevitable suffering and destruction caused by war, then I accept the burden of leadership. The Sixth House cannot be restored without war. Enlightenment cannot grow back without the risk of upsetting the tradition-bound and complacent herd. And the Mongrel armies of the Empire cannot be expelled from Morrowind without bloodshed. As I have charity and compassion, I grieve. But our mission is just and noble.
What happened to the Dwemer?
I have no idea what happened to the Dwemer, I have been denied the opportunity to study Wraithguard, and I am not sure how much of Kagrenac's lore was invested in his tools, and how much in his own sorcery and mastery. I have long studied Kagrenac, and have come to admire his wisdom and craft. Someday, after the campaigns of the Sixth House are secure, I hope to have time to dedicate to this mystery.
Why are you building Akulakhan?
Akulakhan will serve three purposes. First, it will be the champion of my armies, liberating first Vvardenfell, then Morrowind, and then, perhaps the rest of Tamriel. Second, it will serve as a sower and cultivator of the divine substance derived from the Heart. Three, it will serve as the prominent banner and symbol of our cause -- to defy the Empire, to liberate mortals from ancient superstitions, and to glorify our crusade against the gods.
I'm finished talking, Defend yourself.
Very well. If you are impatient to begin. Go ahead. You are the challenger. To you goes the first blow.